= TabsOnRails

TabsOnRails is a simple Rails plugin for creating and managing Tabs.
It provides helpers for creating tabs with a flexible interface.


== Requirements

* Ruby >= 1.8.6
* Rails >= 2.2

or

* Rails 3

Warning: TabsOnRails doesn't work with Rails 2.1 or previous versions
(see {this comment}[http://www.simonecarletti.com/blog/2009/04/tabsonrails/#comment-2901]
and {this commit}[http://github.com/weppos/tabs_on_rails/commit/d5ae9f401e3d0acc87251fa8957a8625e90ba4b3]).


== Installation

=== As a Gem (Rails 2)

RubyGems is the preferred way to install TabsOnRails and the best way if you want install a stable version.
The GEM is hosted on {RubyGems}[http://rubygems.org/gems/tabs_on_rails].

  $ gem install tabs_on_rails

With Rails >= 2.2, specify the Gem dependency in your environment.rb file so that Rails
will automatically check the requirement on startup.

  Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
    
    # other configurations
    # ...
    
    config.gem "tabs_on_rails"
    
  end

With Rails 3, specify the Gem dependency in the {Bundler}[http://gembundler.com/] Gemfile.

  gem "tabs_on_rails"


=== As a Plugin

  $ script/plugin install git://github.com/weppos/tabs_on_rails.git

Warning: this method is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
Use Bundler and the {:git option}[http://gembundler.com/v1.0/git.html]
if you want to grab the latest version from the Git repository.


== Usage

In your template use the <tt>tabs_tag</tt> helper to create your tab.

  <% tabs_tag do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.home      'Homepage', root_path %>
    <%= tab.dashboard 'Dashboard', dashboard_path %>
    <%= tab.account   'Account', account_path %>
  <% end %>

The example above produces the following HTML output.

  <ul>
    <li><a href="/">Homepage</a></li>
    <li><a href="/dashboard">Dashboard</a></li>
    <li><a href="/account">Account</a></li>
  </ul>

The usage is similar to the Rails route file.
You create named tabs with the syntax <tt>tab.name_of_tab</tt>.

The name you use creating a tab is the same you're going to refer to in your controller
when you want to mark a tab as the current tab.

  class DashboardController < ApplicationController
    set_tab :dashboard
  end

Now, if the action belongs to <tt>DashboardController</tt>, the template will automatically render the following HTML code.

  <ul>
    <li><a href="/">Homepage</a></li>
    <li class="custom"><span>Dashboard</span></li>
    <li><a href="/account">Account</a></li>
  </ul>

Use the <tt>current_tab</tt> helper method if you need to access the value of current tab in your controller or template.

  class DashboardController < ApplicationController
    set_tab :dashboard
  end

  # In your view
  <p>The name of current tab is <%= current_tab %>.</p>

=== Customizing a Tab

You can pass a hash of options to customize the style and the behavior of the tab item.
Behind the scenes, each time you create a tab, the <tt>#tab_for</tt> 
method is invoked.

  <% tabs_tag do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.home      'Homepage', root_path, :style => "padding: 10px" %>
    <%= tab.dashboard 'Dashboard', dashboard_path %>
  <% end %>

  <ul>
    <li style="padding: 10px"><a href="/">Homepage</a></li>
    <li class="custom"><span>Dashboard</span></li>
    <li><a href="/account">Account</a></li>
  </ul>

See <tt>TabsOnRails::Tabs::TabsBuilder#tab_for</tt> for more details.

=== Customizing open_tabs and close_tabs

The open_tabs and the close_tabs methods can be customized with the <tt>:open_tabs</tt> and <tt>:close_tabs</tt> option.

  <% tabs_tag :open_tabs => { :id => "tabs", :class => "cool" } do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.home      'Homepage', root_path %>
    <%= tab.dashboard 'Dashboard', dashboard_path %>
    <%= tab.account   'Account', account_path %>
  <% end %>

  <ul id="tabs" class="cool">
    <li><a href="/">Homepage</a></li>
    <li><a href="/dashboard">Dashboard</a></li>
    <li><a href="/account">Account</a></li>
  </ul>


Further customizations require a custom <tt>Builder</tt> (see below).


== Restricting set_tab scope

The <tt>set_tab</tt> method understands all options you are used to pass to a Rails controller filter.
In fact, behind the scenes this method uses a <tt>before_filter</tt> to store the tab in the <tt>@tab_stack</tt> variable.

Taking advantage of Rails filter options, you can restrict a tab to a selected group of actions in the same controller.

  class PostsController < ApplicationController
    set_tab :admin
    set_tab :posts, :only => %w(index show)
  end
  
  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    set_tab :admin, :if => :admin_controller?
    
    def admin_controller?
      self.class.name =~ /^Admin(::|Controller)/
    end
  end


== Using Namespaces to create Multiple Tabs

Namespaces enable you to create and manage tabs in parallels. The best way to demonstrate namespace usage is with an example.

Let's assume your application provides a first level navigation menu with 3 elements: :home, :dashboard, :projects. The relationship between your tabs and your controllers is 1:1 so you should end up with the following source code.

  class HomeController
    set_tab :home
  end

  class DashboardController
    set_tab :dashboard
  end

  class ProjectsController
    set_tab :projects
    
    def first; end
    def second; end
    def third; end
  end

The project controller contains 3 actions and you might want to create a second-level navigation menu. This menu should reflect the navigation status of the user in the project page.

Without namespaces, you wouldn't be able to accomplish this task because you already set the current tab value to :projects. You need to create a parallel navigation menu and uniquely identify it with a custom namespace.
Let's call it :navigation.

  class ProjectsController
    set_tab :projects
  
    # Create an other tab navigation level
    set_tab :first, :navigation, :only => %w(first)
    set_tab :second, :navigation, :only => %w(second)
    set_tab :third, :navigation, :only => %w(third)
  
    def first; end
    def second; end
    def third; end
  end

Voilà! That's all you need to do. And you can create an unlimited number of namespaces as long as you use an unique name to identify them.

The default namespace is called :default. Passing :default as name is the same as don't using any namespace at all. The following lines are equivalent.

  set_tab :projects
  set_tab :projects, :default


=== Rendering Tabs with Namespaces

To switch namespace in your template, just pass the :namespace option to the <tt>tabs_tag</tt> helper method.

  <% tabs_tag do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.home      'Homepage', root_path %>
    <%= tab.dashboard 'Dashboard', dashboard_path %>
    <%= tab.projects  'Projects', projects_path %>
  <% end %>

  <% tabs_tag :namespace => :navigation do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.first   'First', first_project_path %>
    <%= tab.second  'Second', second_project_path %>
    <%= tab.third   'Account', third_project_path %>
  <% end %>

=== Namespace scope

As a bonus feature, the namespace needs to be unique within current request scope, not necessarily across the entire application.

Back to the previous example, you can reuse the same namespace in the other controllers. In this way, you can reuse your templates as well.

  class HomeController
    set_tab :home
  end

  class DashboardController
    set_tab :dashboard

    set_tab :index,  :navigation, :only => %w(index)
    set_tab :common, :navigation, :only => %w(foo bar)
    
    # ...
  end

  class ProjectsController
    set_tab :projects
  
    set_tab :first,  :navigation, :only => %w(first)
    set_tab :second, :navigation, :only => %w(second)
    set_tab :third,  :navigation, :only => %w(third)
    
    # ...
  end

== Tab Builders

The <tt>Builder</tt> is responsible for creating the tabs HTML code. This library is bundled with two <tt>Builders</tt>:

<tt>Tabs::Builder</tt>:: this is the abstract interface for any custom builder.
<tt>Tabs::TabsBuilder</tt>:: this is the default builder.

=== Understanding the Builder

Builders act as formatters. A Builder encapsulates all the logic behind the tab creation including the code required to toggle tabs status.

When the <tt>tabs_tag</tt> helper is called, it creates a new <tt>Tabs</tt> instance with selected Builder.
If you don't provide a custom builder, then <tt>Tabs::TabsBuilder</tt> is used by default.

=== Creating a custom Builder

All builders must extend the base <tt>Tabs::Builder</tt> class and implement at least the <tt>tab_for</tt> method.
Additional overridable methods include:

<tt>open_tabs</tt>:: the method called before the tab set
<tt>close_tabs</tt>:: the method called after the tab set
<tt>tab_for</tt>:: the method called to create a single tab item

The following example creates a custom tab builder called <tt>MenuTabBuilder</tt>.

  class MenuTabBuilder < TabsOnRails::Tabs::Builder
    def tab_for(tab, name, options, item_options = {})
      item_options[:class] = (current_tab?(tab) ? 'active' : '')
      @context.content_tag(:li, item_options) do
        @context.link_to(name, options)
      end
    end
  end

=== Using a custom Builder

In your view, simply pass the builder class to the <tt>tabs_tag</tt> method.

  <% tabs_tag(:builder => MenuTabBuilder) do |tab| %>
    <%= tab.home        'Homepage', root_path %>
    <%= tab.dashboard,  'Dashboard', dashboard_path %>
    <%= tab.account     'Account', account_path, :style => 'float: right;' %>
  <% end %>
  
This is the final result.

  <ul>
    <li class=""><a href="/">Homepage</a></li>
    <li class="active"><a href="/dashboard">Dashboard</a></li>
    <li class="" style="float: right;"><a href="/account">Account</a></li>
  </ul>


== Author

* {Simone Carletti}[http://www.simonecarletti.com] <weppos@weppos.net>


== Resources

* {Homepage}[http://www.simonecarletti.com/code/tabs_on_rails]
* {Source}[http://github.com/weppos/tabs_on_rails]
* {API Documentation}[http://www.simonecarletti.com/code/tabs_on_rails/api/]
* {Wiki}[http://code.simonecarletti.com/projects/tabsonrails]
* {Bugs & Features}[http://github.com/weppos/tabs_on_rails/issues]


== License

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Simone Carletti, TabsOnRails is released under the MIT license.
